# Building-a-computational-model-of-the-visual-system-to-investigate-temporal-harmonics-in-modulated-v
Peripheral vision is an important aspect when it comes to studying vision as it makes up the majority of the visual field. Therefore when one part of the visual system such as the central vision is impaired, it is crucial to be able to use different techniques to use the remaining of the visual field for all daily tasks. Disorders such as age-related macular degeneration suffer from losing central vision, hence, these patients evolve new eye movements and strategies to use the remaining of the visual field for different tasks. Meanwhile, visual scientists attempt to develop new methods to further improve the use of the remaining vision in visual disorders. Some of these approaches include manipulating visual targets’ dynamics by introducing temporal modulations that can create temporal harmonics to widen the spatio-temporal range of the stimuli and improve peripheral acuity. In this study we attempt to build a model of the visual system in order to investigate whether temporal harmonics are indeed involved in improving peripheral acuity in two specific approaches; subsampling the stimuli and contrast polarity reversal of the stimuli. We also made comparisons between the model estimations and human data to draw further interpretations about temporal harmonics’ effects on vision. We found that the model replicates certain aspects of the visual system such as the threshold of spatial and temporal frequencies and visibility is better in unmodulated stimuli. The model is a suitable foundation that can be expanded on by future experimentation and to reach a more complete representation of the visual system.
